More IEEE sites
IEEE.org
IEEE Xplore Digital Library
IEEE Standards
IEEE Spectrum
More sites
Home
New Authors
Journal Authors
Conference Authors
Book Authors
Magazine Authors
Journal Authors
Become an IEEE Journal Author Benefits of Publishing with IEEE Publishing Ethics Ethical Requirements Author Responsibilities Guidelines and Policies Fundamental Publishing Guidelines and Principles Submission and Peer Review Policies Post-Publication Policies IEEE Author Name Change Policy IEEE Guidelines on Advertising, Accessibility, and Data Privacy Video Tutorials
Benefits of Publishing with IEEE
Publishing Ethics Ethical Requirements Author Responsibilities Guidelines and Policies Fundamental Publishing Guidelines and Principles Submission and Peer Review Policies Post-Publication Policies IEEE Author Name Change Policy IEEE Guidelines on Advertising, Accessibility, and Data Privacy
Ethical Requirements
Author Responsibilities
Guidelines and Policies Fundamental Publishing Guidelines and Principles Submission and Peer Review Policies Post-Publication Policies IEEE Author Name Change Policy IEEE Guidelines on Advertising, Accessibility, and Data Privacy
Fundamental Publishing Guidelines and Principles
Submission and Peer Review Policies
Post-Publication Policies
IEEE Author Name Change Policy
IEEE Guidelines on Advertising, Accessibility, and Data Privacy
Video Tutorials
Create Your IEEE Journal Article Authoring Tools and Templates Checklist for Creating Your Article Tools for IEEE Authors Find a Journal IEEE Article Templates Create the Text of Your Article Structure Your Article IEEE Editorial Style Manual Create Graphics for Your Article Resolution and Size File Formatting Prepare Supplementary Materials Research Reproducibility
Authoring Tools and Templates Checklist for Creating Your Article Tools for IEEE Authors Find a Journal IEEE Article Templates
Checklist for Creating Your Article
Tools for IEEE Authors Find a Journal IEEE Article Templates
Find a Journal
IEEE Article Templates
Create the Text of Your Article Structure Your Article IEEE Editorial Style Manual
Structure Your Article
IEEE Editorial Style Manual
Create Graphics for Your Article Resolution and Size File Formatting
Resolution and Size
File Formatting
Prepare Supplementary Materials
Research Reproducibility
Submit Your Article for Peer Review The IEEE Article Submission Process IEEE Publishing Portal About the Peer Review Process Understanding the Decision Process Checklist for Submitting Your Article for Peer Review Ethics in Peer Review Become an IEEE Reviewer
The IEEE Article Submission Process
IEEE Publishing Portal
About the Peer Review Process
Understanding the Decision Process
Checklist for Submitting Your Article for Peer Review
Ethics in Peer Review
Become an IEEE Reviewer
Choose a Publishing Agreement About the IEEE Copyright Form Open Access Rights Management Avoid Infringement upon IEEE Copyright Checklist for Choosing Your Publishing Agreement
About the IEEE Copyright Form
Open Access Rights Management
Avoid Infringement upon IEEE Copyright
Checklist for Choosing Your Publishing Agreement
Your Role in Article Production Use the IEEE Author Gateway How to Review Your Article Proof About Potential Article Processing Charges IEEE Editorial Style Manual Checklist for Article Production
Use the IEEE Author Gateway
How to Review Your Article Proof
About Potential Article Processing Charges
IEEE Editorial Style Manual
Checklist for Article Production
When Your Article Is Published About the IEEE Xplore® Digital Library IEEE Xplore® Author Profiles Create Citation Alerts in the IEEE Xplore Digital Library View Your Article Metrics in the IEEE Xplore Digital Library Promote Your Article Abstracting & Indexing (A&I) Databases Purchase Print Copies of Your Article Checklist for Post-Publication
About the IEEE Xplore® Digital Library
IEEE Xplore® Author Profiles
Create Citation Alerts in the IEEE Xplore Digital Library
View Your Article Metrics in the IEEE Xplore Digital Library
Promote Your Article
Abstracting & Indexing (A&I) Databases
Purchase Print Copies of Your Article
Checklist for Post-Publication
About the Peer Review Process
Peer review is vital to the quality of published research. Your submitted article will be evaluated by at least two independent reviewers. Feedback from the peer reviewers will contribute to the editor’s decision on whether to accept or reject your article for publication.
What is peer review and why is it important?
Peer review is critical to the publication of high-quality research. It improves article quality by honing key points, identifying errors and holes, and giving authors constructive feedback and suggestions. It also acts as a filter to ensure that research is properly vetted before publication. Reviewers assess the quality, validity, and originality of the research findings.
Reviewers are experts in the field who are independent of the authors and the editorial office.
How does it work?
IEEE policy requires at least two qualified reviewers evaluate a submitted article before the editor can accept that article for publication. ( IEEE Publication Services and Products Board (PSPB) Operations Manual Section 8.2.2.A.4).
The journal editor invites reviewers who are experts in your article’s subject matter to evaluate the article and provide feedback.
Reviewers comment on a variety of points such as whether the study is well designed or if the results are too preliminary. Reviewers can help authors hone key points, identify and resolve errors, and generate new ideas.
The reviewers’ feedback informs the editor’s decision on whether to accept or reject the article.
The most common types of peer review are single-anonymous, double-anonymous, and transparent peer review (also called open peer review). In single-anonymous review, the reviewers’ names are not revealed to the author, although the reviewers know the author’s identity. In double-anonymous review, neither the author nor the reviewers know each other’s identity, ensuring that evaluations are made without influence from personal or professional relationships. A third model, transparent peer review, allows reviewers’ reports to be published alongside the article if both the author and reviewers choose to opt in, offering additional openness into the evaluation process. All three models are designed to support objective and impartial assessment, and most IEEE publications use the single-anonymous format.
What are editors and reviewers looking for?
During the peer review process, editors, and reviewers look for the following.
Scope: Is the article appropriate for this publication?
Novelty: Is this original material distinct from previous publications?
Validity: Is the study well designed and executed?
Data: Are the data reported, analyzed, and interpreted correctly?
Clarity: Are the ideas expressed clearly, concisely, and logically?
Compliance: Are all ethical and journal requirements met?
Advancement: Is this a significant contribution to the field?
Home
New Authors
Journal Authors
Conference Authors
Book Authors
Magazine Authors
IEEE Author Center Home
Accessibility
Nondiscrimination Policy
IEEE Ethics Reporting
Terms & Disclosures
IEEE Privacy Policy
Contact IEEE Author Center
© 2026 IEEE - All rights reserved. Use of this website signifies your agreement to the IEEE TERMS AND CONDITIONS.
A public charity, IEEE is the world’s largest technical professional organization dedicated to advancing technology for the benefit of humanity.