IEEE Transactions on Reliability Review Policy

  1. TRel requires each paper to be reviewed by AT LEAST TWO (2) independent reviewers
     with THREE (3) reviewers preferred by default. When inviting reviewers, please be sure
     to check if the author has any suggested/non-preferred reviewers. If you invite a reviewer
     recommended by the author, you must also invite at least one another independent
     reviewer not recommended by the author.

     Special cases: Contact Professor Steven Li, Editor-in-Chief

     Every paper needs to be reviewed by at least TWO (2) reviewers not recommended by
     the author.

  2. IEEE requires that each accepted paper have at least two ACCEPT recommendations
     from independent peer reviewers, and an AE cannot be a peer reviewer.

     This requirement can be waived if the previous version of a paper has
     an ACCEPT recommendation and a Minor Revision recommendation. Under this
     condition, the AE can serve as a reviewer to carefully examine the revised submission
     and to make sure all the comments have been satisfactorily addressed. If so, the AE can
     recommend to accept this paper. However, the AE must also complete a review report in
     the section “Comments to the Author” like a regular reviewer to justify why he/she gives
     an ACCEPT recommendation.

  3. If a paper receives at least one Major Revision and one Reject recommendation (no
     matter what the other recommendations are), it should be rejected unless the AE can
     provide a strong justification to explain why the paper should not be rejected.

     Under no circumstances can a paper be accepted without revision if it receives at least
     one REJECT recommendation from any reviewer.

  4. A paper is allowed to go through at most TWO (2) iterations (initial submission, and R1).
     After the revision, except for very minor editorial changes, if the paper still cannot be
     accepted, any additional revision must be submitted as a new submission.

     Please inform authors that when they submit a revised version, in addition to the
     manuscript, they must also include a separate list at the beginning of the pdf file detailing
     how each reviewer’s comment is addressed item-by-item in their paper.

  5. Please examine whether a paper is within the main scope of TRel.

     We will not publish papers:
       •   with only a few pages and many mathematical formulas based on assumptions
           and approximations and do not provide clear examples of the practical use of
           these formulas
       •   with incremental works, that is, work depicting minor variations on other
           publications
       •   based on simplified simulations and yet-to-be-proved theories

   TRel requires all papers to include a substantial discussion of previous and related works,
   including and especially previous work from the same author (group).

   TRel gives higher priority to papers with results from case studies on real-life
   applications and discussions of possible impacts in the field.

   Papers published in TRel should deal with real challenges in reliability. We are not
   interested in publishing a paper with only a few pages, unless it is exceptionally well-
   written with solid real-life applications. Those that mainly consist of models and/or
   mathematical formulas based on simplified/artificial assumptions and approximations and
   do not provide clear examples of the practical use of these models/formulas are unlikely
   to be accepted.

   Since we have a large number of high-quality submissions, we only accept papers that
   have solid endorsement from the reviewers. A paper in which there are any major
   concerns that have not been addressed cannot be accepted.

   TRel has a long tradition on being strict about overlapping/plagiarism between
   submissions and previously published papers. The current threshold is 30%. Any
   submission that is over this limit will be rejected without further evaluation. Please advise
   authors that the best way to avoid this problem is not to copy and paste paragraphs from
   other papers, including their own publications.

6. Information or content contained in or about a manuscript under review shall not be
   processed through a public platform (directly or indirectly) for AI generation of text for a
   review. Doing so is considered a breach of confidentiality because AI systems generally
   learn from any input. (IEEE Publication Services and Products Board Operations
   Manual, Section 8.2.1.C.6)
7. When you submit your preliminary decision, you need to justify it. Please do not leave
   the section “Associate Editor’s Summary” blank. Also, the justification cannot be
   over-simplified. For example, it is inappropriate to say that a paper should be rejected (or
   accepted) because the reviewers have suggested so. You should read all the comments
   and determine whether there are any contradictions between a reviewer’s
   recommendation and his/her detailed comments. Any recommendation without
   appropriate justification should be excluded.

   We have noticed that some reviewers (especially those recommended by the authors)
   simply want to accept a paper without providing any comments or only giving very
   shallow comments. Such biased reviews cannot be used to support the acceptance of a
   paper.

   To improve the review quality, it is critical that you write your own concluding
   comments based on reviewers’ feedback and your overall evaluation of the paper to be
   shared as Comments to the EiC in the ScholarOne Manuscript center. In short, your
   preliminary decision should not only be based on reviewers’ recommendations without
   examining their detailed comments. If you observe some suspicious and/or inconsistent
   comments, please use your best judgment to determine whether they should be discarded.
   If you still want to include them, you may consider lowering their weight while making
   your decision.

8. In some cases, the detailed comments submitted by a reviewer as an attachment are either
    not properly uploaded to the system or are in the system but not included along with an
    AE’s preliminary decision. If this happens, the AE needs to manually upload these files
    and send an email to the Editor-in-Chief so that he can ask IEEE to check with
    ScholarOne Manuscripts to find out what goes wrong.
9. A reviewer may mistakenly enter his/her comments into the filed marked “Confidential
    Comments to the Editor” even though they are really meant for the authors. As a result,
    only the editors can see these comments. If this is the case, you need to manually copy
    and paste these comments into your decision letter so that such information can be shared
    with the authors to not only help them understand how you make your
    acceptance/revision/rejection decision, but also provide them with useful guidance to
    further improve their papers.
10. To make sure all the submissions are in the same format and to better estimate the length
    of each manuscript, authors will be required to use a style similar to that in the printed
    version of TRel. More precisely, it should be in the standard double-column and
    single-space format. The font size should be 11-point. Any submissions that do not
    comply with the required format will be returned to the authors for reformatting.
11. To accelerate the review process, the Assistant to the Editor-in-Chief tracks submissions
    that have gone more than six months without receiving a single review, despite more than
    10 relevant reviewers having been invited. For such submissions, authors will be notified
    of the status and given the option to either consider alternative publication venues or
    continue waiting to obtain at least two reviews for a decision.

   In addition, for submissions with only one review (e.g., a recommendation of Rejection
   or Major Revision) after THREE months of review time, the AE, at their discretion, may
   proceed with a decision of Reject or Major revision, respectively. Such measures help
   prevent excessively delayed reviews and demonstrate our commitment to timely and
   responsible editorial decisions.

   When making a recommendation of Reject or Major revision to the EiC, PLEASE
   summarize all reviewer feedback in 2-3 sentences in the AE Comment Section. This will
   help expedite and facilitate concurrence with your recommendation for the final decision.
        We will contact you via email if you are on the AE list. If you receive such a reminder,
        please complete your assignment(s) as soon as possible. It is very important that we
        speed up the review process.




Special Guidelines for Authors

(This is posted at the beginning of the submission page in ScholarOne Manuscript system so that every
author must read them and click the associated check box to show his/her understanding before
proceeding with the submission. The same information also appears on the website of Reliability Society
under Publications.)

    •   We welcome high quality submissions that are original work, not published, and not
        currently submitted elsewhere. We also welcome extensions of conference papers, unless
        prohibited by copyright, if there is a significant difference in the technical content.
        Improvements such as adding a new case study or including a description of additional
        related studies do not satisfy this requirement.

    •   Each submission must conform to the double column and single-spaced format of printed
        articles in the IEEE Transactions on Reliability, with all figures and tables embedded in
        the paper rather than listed at the end or in the appendix.

    •   An abstract must be included at the beginning of each submission, as well as copied and
        pasted into the corresponding Abstract box at Step 1 of the submission. If it is uploaded
        as an attachment, a message such as “See the attached abstract” must be entered into the
        corresponding box.

    •   If you are submitting a revised version, the main file should have a list detailing how
        each reviewer’s comment has been addressed in the beginning, followed by a revised
        version of the paper. More precisely, include everything in one single pdf file. Do not
        submit your responses to comments as part of the cover letter as reviewers may have
        trouble finding them.

    •   The overlap between a submission and other articles, including the authors’ own
        papers/reports and dissertations, should be less than 30%. All materials accessible by the
        public will be included for plagiarism check. You should not copy and paste any
        paragraphs from other papers, even if they are your own publications.

    •   The use of content generated by artificial intelligence (AI) in an article (including but not
        limited to text, figures, images, and code) shall be disclosed in the acknowledgments
        section of any article submitted to an IEEE publication. The AI system used shall be
        identified, and specific sections of the article that use AI-generated content shall be
      identified and accompanied by a brief explanation regarding the level at which the AI
      system was used to generate the content. The use of AI systems for editing and grammar
      enhancement is common practice and, as such, is generally outside the intent of the above
      policy. In this case, disclosure as noted above is recommended. (IEEE Publication
      Services and Products Board Operations Manual, Section 8.2.1.B.10)

  •   For submissions with over FIVE authors, please provide the justification for the
      contributions of each of the individual authors to the work in front of the main
      manuscript.

  •   Papers not complying with these guidelines may be rejected without further evaluation.




Additional Information for Authors


  •   Any paper shorter than five pages is likely to be rejected without evaluation unless it is
      well-written with solid contributions to advance reliability and related areas.

  •   The page limit of a manuscript is 15. A manuscript over 15 pages will be rejected without
      further review.

  •   Papers with many formulas based on assumptions and approximations that are yet to be
      justified and do not provide clear examples of the practical use of these formulas are
      unlikely to be accepted.

  •   Papers with only incremental improvements that are minor variations of other
      publications are likely to be rejected without evaluation.

  •   Papers based on simplified simulations and yet-to-be-proven theories without appropriate
      justifications are unlikely to be accepted.

  •   All submissions must include a substantial discussion of previous and related works,
      including and especially, previous publications from the same author (group).

  •   Papers reporting results from case studies on real-life applications and discussions of
      possible impacts in the field will receive high priority for hardcopy publication after they
      are accepted.
•   Once a paper is accepted, authors cannot make changes to the technical contents beyond
    those noted in the reviews and the AE's decision letter. Otherwise, the paper will be
    returned to the corresponding AE for further evaluation. It is also not allowed to add
    additional authors or remove those listed on the accepted version.

•   After a paper is accepted, authors are encouraged to submit the required files to IEEE
    following the instructions provided in the decision letter and to address all editorial
    inquiries from IEEE in a timely manner to avoid possible delay of the online publication
    of their paper.

•   Send inquiries to Professor Steven Li, Editor-in-Chief of IEEE Transactions on
    Reliability.
